Title: 
	US Economic Development | Public & Social Sector | McKinsey & Company
States,  counties,  and  cities across  the  United  States  are reimagining  their  economic  futures.  Leaders  are striving  to build  stronger,  more  equitable,  and  more  resilient  economies  in the  face of diverse  and unprecedented challenges—including  the  lasting  effects  of the  pandemic  and the  acceleration  of technological  change.
This  moment  presents  state  and  local  leaders—and their business and civic partners—with immense  opportunity  but  also  poses  significant  strategic and  operational  hurdles.  How  can leaders  design  strategic  programs  to  help  them  accomplish  their  desired goals—whether  securing  the  right  skills  and  talent,  fueling  productivity  and innovation,  building  vibrant places  and  communities,  or ensuring  an inclusive  and  sustainable  future?  How  can state  and local organizations  collaborate  to achieve  target  outcomes,  measure  success,  and  bring lasting  change?
For more  than  50 years, we  have  worked  side-by-side  with  public,  private,  and  social  sector  leaders  across the  country  on economic  development  and  recovery  efforts. Among  the  many  important  lessons  from this work  is that  inclusion  and  growth,  or sustainability  and  growth,  are not  conflicting  goals.  In fact, insufficient economic  inclusion  and  environmentally  unsustainable  approaches  are threats  to  prosperity—and  therefore these  goals  are best  pursued  in tandem.
The  following  knowledge  collection  represents  this  experience  and  understanding,  as  well  as independent research  on  what  works,  including  the  latest  economic  analyses  from  our internal  think  tank,  the  McKinsey Global  Institute;  a range  of capabilities  and  action-oriented  tools  that  we  have  developed  to help  state  and local  leaders  tackle  critical economic  development  challenges;  and our deep  expertise  in managing  and delivering  on outcomes.  Taken  together,  these  insights  can help  state  and  local  leaders  and their business and civic partners to lay the  foundation for healthy,  and equitable,  economies.
Never miss an insight. We'll email you when new articles are published on this topic.
  Subscribed to {PRACTICE_NAME} email alerts.                 
