Title: China Overview: Development news, research, data | World BankWith 189 member countries, staff from more than 170 countries, and offices in over 130 locations, the World Bank Group is a unique global partnership: five institutions working for sustainable solutions that reduce poverty and build shared prosperity in developing countries.  
The World Bank Group works in every major area of development.  We provide a wide array of financial products and technical assistance, and we help countries share and apply innovative knowledge and solutions to the challenges they face.
We face big challenges to help the world’s poorest people and ensure that everyone sees benefits from economic growth. Data and research help us understand these challenges and set priorities, share knowledge of what works, and measure progress.
Since China began to open up and reform its economy in 1978, GDP growth has averaged almost 10 percent a year, and more than 800 million people have been lifted out of poverty. There have also been significant improvements in access to health, education, and other services over the same period.
Since China began to open up and reform its economy in 1978, GDP growth has averaged almost 10 percent a year, and more than 800 million people have been lifted out of poverty. There have also been significant improvements in access to health, education, and other services over the same period.
China is now an upper-middle-income country.  It will be important going forward that poverty alleviation efforts increasingly shift to address the vulnerabilities faced by the large number of people still considered poor by the standards of middle-income countries, including those living in urban areas.
China’s high growth based on resource-intensive manufacturing, exports, and low-paid labor has largely reached its limits and has led to economic, social, and environmental imbalances. Reducing these imbalances requires shifts in the structure of the economy from manufacturing to high value services, and from investment to consumption.
Over the past few years, growth has moderated in the face of structural constraints, including declining labor force growth, diminishing returns to investment, and slowing productivity. The challenge going forward is to find new drivers of growth while addressing the social and environmental legacies of China’s previous development path.
China’s rapid economic growth exceeded the pace of institutional development, and there are important institutional and reform gaps that China needs to address to ensure a high-quality and sustainable growth path. The role of the state needs to evolve and focus on providing stable market expectations and a clear and fair business environment, as well as strengthening the regulatory system and the rule of law to further support the market system.
Given its size, China is central to important regional and global development issues. China is the largest emitter of greenhouse gases, with per capita emissions now surpassing those of the European Union, although slightly below the OECD average and well below the United States, and its air and water pollution affects other countries. Global environmental problems cannot be solved without China’s engagement. China’s growing economy is also an important source of global demand, and its economic rebalancing will create new opportunities for manufacturing exporters but may reduce demand for commodities over the medium-term.
China is a growing influence on other developing economies through trade, investment, and ideas. Many of the complex development challenges that China faces are relevant to other countries, including transitioning to a new growth model, rapid aging, building a cost-effective health system, and promoting a lower carbon energy path.
Following real GDP growth of 8.1 percent in 2021, growth is projected to slow to 5.0 percent in 2022. The forecast reflects rising headwinds: Domestic demand has slowed, and the global economic environment has worsened significantly with the war in Ukraine. In addition, COVID incursions have become more frequent and widespread. China is currently experiencing the largest COVID wave since the end of the national lockdown in March 2020.
In the face of these shocks, the authorities have announced a significant loosening of policy. The 2022 budget leaves room for a fiscal boost of up to 2.7 percent of GDP.  Risks are firmly on the downside and include a stronger than expected global slowdown, a longer lasting commodity price shock, and more severe financial stress among property developers. China also remains at risk of re-escalating COVID outbreaks, which could lead to significant economic disruption. In a downside scenario, economic growth could slow to 4.0 percent in 2022.
Over the medium term, China’s economy is facing structural headwinds given adverse demographics, tepid productivity growth, and the legacies of excessive borrowing and environmental pollution. In the face of these challenges, macroeconomic policies need to be careful not to exacerbate financial risks. Structural reforms are needed to reinvigorate the shift to more balanced high-quality growth.
An important element of such a shift is a reduction in the inequality of economic opportunities. The government has highlighted achieving common prosperity as a key economic objective but has not yet defined specific policies to reach this goal. More progressive taxation and a strengthened social protection system could protect the most vulnerable, reduce inequality and help boost private consumption as a driver of growth.
Last Updated: Apr 12, 2022
China and the World Bank Group (WBG) have worked together for over 40 years. The WBG’s new Country Partnership Framework (CPF) for FY2020 to 2025, issued in December 2019, reflects the evolution of the Bank Group’s relationship with China toward a decline in lending and a more selective engagement in line with the capital increase commitments agreed to by its shareholders in 2018.  
The CPF aims to help China address some of its remaining development challenges, notably the transition to more environmentally sustainable growth, strengthen key Chinese institutions engaged in economic and social development, and reduce inequality in lagging regions.
World Bank (IBRD) lending will decline over the CPF period and focus on supporting China in contributing to global public goods. Knowledge and advisory services will play a growing role in the cooperation with the WBG. The International Finance Corporation (IFC) will also continue to invest in China’s private sector, promoting high standards and supporting companies producing goods and services with high social and environmental benefits.
The CPF has three broad areas of engagement:
The CPF is informed by the Bank Group’s Systematic Country Diagnostic (SCD) published in early 2018 and other Bank studies including Innovative China: New Drivers of Growth published in 2019. At the CPF midpoint, the Bank Group will assess progress in CPF implementation.
Last Updated: Apr 12, 2022
China began its partnership with the Bank in 1980, just as it embarked on its reforms. Starting as a recipient of support from the International Development Association (IDA), the Bank Group’s fund for the poorest, China graduated from IDA in 1999 and became a donor in 2007. It became the World Bank’s third largest shareholder upon completion of the capital increase approved in 2010, the 30th anniversary of its partnership. 
The nature of the Bank’s activities in China has evolved over time as China’s needs and level of development have changed. In the early years, the World Bank brought international experience to help design economic reform strategies, improve project management, and address key bottlenecks to growth. More recently, this two-way relationship has evolved —the World Bank offers international expertise to help address China’s key development challenges and pilot reforms through projects and programs; and China’s development experiences enhance the Bank’s global knowledge and capacity to help other developing countries.
Research
Joint flagship studies have been important for deepening the dialogue on policies and Bank programs and provided a model for other middle-income countries. China 2030: Building a Modern, Harmonious, and Creative Society, a joint report by the World Bank and the Development Research Center of China’s State Council, lays out six strategic directions for China’s future: completing the transition to a market economy; accelerating the pace of open innovation; going “green” to transform environmental stresses into green growth as a driver for development; expanding opportunities and services such as health, education and access to jobs for all people; modernizing and strengthening its domestic fiscal system; and seeking mutually beneficial relations with the world by connecting China’s structural reforms to the changing international economy.
Urban China: Toward Efficient, Inclusive, and Sustainable Urbanization, also a joint report by the World Bank and the Development Research Center of China’s State Council, recommends that China curb rapid urban sprawl by reforming land requisition, give migrants urban residency and equal access to basic public services, and reform local finances by finding stable revenues and by allowing local governments to borrow directly within strict central rules.
Healthy China: Deepening Health Reform in China, Building High-Quality and Value-Based Service Delivery, a joint study on reforming China’s health system in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, the National Health and Family Planning Commission, and the World Health Organization, recommends deeper healthcare reforms by creating a new model of people-centered quality integrated health care that strengthens primary care as the core of the health system; continuously improving health care quality; empowering patients with knowledge and understanding of health services; boosting the status of the health workforce, especially primary-care providers; allowing qualified private health providers to deliver cost-effective services; and prioritizing public investments.
Innovative China: New Drivers of Growth, a joint report by the Development Research Center of China’s State Council, the Ministry of Finance and the World Bank Group proposes that China addresses its productivity challenges by promoting the “three Ds” – removing distortions in the economy, accelerating diffusion of existing advanced technologies and innovations, and fostering discovery of new technologies, products, and processes so as to expand China’s productivity frontier. The report develops recommendations in seven areas to promote the “three Ds.” These recommendations focus on strengthening competition across product and factor markets and creating a level playing field for all investors, investing in human capital and improving the targeting of support for innovation and entrepreneurship, and adapting the model of economic governance to adjust the balance between the state and the market.
Four Decades of Poverty Reduction in China: Drivers, Insights for the World and the Way Ahead , a joint report by the Development Research Center of China’s State Council, the Ministry of Finance and the World Bank Group reviews China’s success in eliminating extreme poverty. It shows that sustained growth and economic transformation created the opportunities that helped close to 800 million poor Chinese achieve an income above $1.9 per day. The report also shows that public investments in infrastructure and more recently increased targeted transfers played an important role in poverty reduction. China’s success was aided by favorable initial conditions and catalyzed by China’s economic reform starting in the late 1970s. Nonetheless, some 220 million Chinese still had incomes below $5.5 a day in 2019. Going forward, the report concludes, China’s social policies need to evolve to address the specific vulnerabilities of this group.
A new joint flagship study addressing the challenges of decarbonizing and greening China’s economy is under preparation.  
Projects
World Bank-financed projects introduced innovations or piloted new approaches and serve as platforms for knowledge exchange.  Many of them also placed a major emphasis on the environment and climate change. Here are some of our recent projects and results in China:
The Yellow River Basin Ecological Protection and Environmental Pollution Control Program, approved in March 2022, helps address water scarcity and ecosystem degradation in China’s Yellow River basin. The program will support China’s strategy for the basin, and will contribute to core objectives of the national plan around ecological and environmental protection and promoting water conservation. Provincial level activities will support ecological protection, water use efficiency, and water pollution control in the middle reach of the Yellow River, where erosion, ecosystem degradation, and water scarcity are pronounced.
The Green Agricultural and Rural Revitalization Program for Results, approved in March 2022, promotes green agriculture and rural development in China’s southwest region and supports the Chinese government’s national Rural Revitalization Program. Program activities comprise institutional capacity building, training and agricultural extension services, financial incentives to promote climate-smart and greener agriculture technologies and practices, and investments in rural wastewater and solid waste management services. The program also includes investments in monitoring, evaluation, and verification of environmental outcomes. It also supports the development of program-based budgets to better link resource use with outcomes at the local government level.
The Yangtze River Protection and Ecological Restoration Program, approved in December 2021, helps enhance ecological protection and reduce water pollution in China’s Yangtze River basin. The program will support coordination across line agencies and levels of government by strengthening data collection and sharing, and by improving water management and allocation. Local level activities will help reduce plastics pollution by developing incentives for the collection of agricultural plastic film, improve wastewater management and collection systems at the township level, and address agricultural pollution through improved management of livestock manure.
The China Plastic Waste Reduction Project, approved in June 2021, helps improve plastic waste management at the national and subnational levels in China and reduce plastics pollution from municipal solid waste. At the national level, the project will help develop policy and implementation mechanisms to reduce plastics pollution, improve resource utilization through recycling, and support waste minimization and prevention. At the subnational level, it will help improve the functionality of solid waste management systems, demonstrate the urban-rural integration of solid waste management and plastic pollution control, and pilot enhanced separation of wastes and increased recycling rates.
The Green Finance Demonstration Project, approved in June 2021, supports the establishment of a Green and Low-Carbon Investment Fund in China. The national-level Fund will develop and demonstrate best-practice environmental standards, and will help catalyze additional private capital from domestic and foreign institutional investors, providing much-needed long-term equity financing to smaller private green innovators and qualified green projects.
The Hunan Subnational Governance and Rural Public Service Delivery Program for Results, approved in February 2021, assists the province in delivering more equitable and efficient public services in rural areas. The financing supports measures to strengthen local debt management and provide results-oriented transfers aimed at reducing disparities in the quality of basic education in rural areas. It would also introduce greater accountability by making budget information more transparent and accessible to citizens.
The China Food Safety Improvement Project, approved in March 2021, helps China improve food safety management at both the national and targeted subnational levels, and reduce food safety risks. It will strengthen food safety regulations, enforcement, and compliance along selected value chains， consistent with global practices, and help farms and food enterprises to access finance for food safety technologies, and organize risk communication campaigns to promote food safety and advocate for healthier lifestyles.
The Emerging Infectious Diseases Prevention, Preparedness and Response Project, approved in June 2020, supports China in strengthening national and provincial systems to reduce the risk of zoonotic and other emerging health threats. The project introduces a multi-sectoral approach that brings together responses from public health, agriculture and food, as well as the environment and wildlife sectors.
Last Updated: Apr 12, 2022
Find out what the Bank Group's branches are doing in China. 
Find out what the Bank Group's branches are doing in China.
                                 China needs to foster new drivers of growth to address productivity challenges, intensify reforms and promote greater innovation.                             
                                 What's ailing China's health system? What Changes are needed? Read the report.                              
                                 By 2030, up to 70% of the Chinese population - some one billion - will be living in cities. How could China prepare for that?                               
                                 Take a look at the results the World Bank-supported projects have achieved in China.                              
 
                                 The World Bank provides free and open access to a comprehensive set of development data in countries around the globe, including China.                              
This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here. 
